DOCS-695: Document Tess's Bedtime Songs Bot (#1505)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/projects/bedtime-songs-bot.md

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4"
videoAlt: "A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer."
authors: [ "Tess Avitabile", "Sierra Guequierre" ]
languages: [ "python" ]
viamresources: [ "camera", "sensor", "mlmodel", "vision" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "21 April 2023"
cost: "0"
---

> ## Author's Note
> 
> **"When I started at Viam, Eliot Horowitz told me the best way to test the product is to try to automate something I do in my life with a robot.
> As a parent of a 3-year-old and a 1-year-old, I am often presented with a toy and asked to sing a song about it.
> When I was testing out Viam's ML Model service, I came up with the idea of using machine learning to make my computer do this simple task for my kids when I'm not around."**
> 
> - Tess, Engineering Director at Viam

Reviewer: This looks a bit strange. How about:
```suggestion
{{< alert title="Author's note" color="note" >}}

"When I started at Viam, Eliot Horowitz told me the best way to test the product is to try to automate something I do in my life with a robot.
As a parent of a 3-year-old and a 1-year-old, I am often presented with a toy and asked to sing a song about it.
When I was testing out Viam's ML Model service, I came up with the idea of using machine learning to make my computer do this simple task for my kids when I'm not around."

<p style="text-align: right;">Tess, Engineering Director</p>
{{< /alert >}}
```

Author: Done, thank you greatly for taking the time to put together a better format-- I couldn't figure it out

Follow this tutorial to train a machine learning model to make your own "bedtime songs bot" out of a personal computer.

## Get Started

To make your own singing robot, you need the following hardware:

- A computer with a webcam, speakers, and the [Go Client SDK](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk) installed.
  Tess used a Macbook, but you can use any PC with a Viam-compatible operating system that meets the above requirements.

While following this tutorial, you'll complete the following steps to train and utilize a machine learning model on a webcam:

1. [**Train your ML Model with pictures of toys:**](#train-your-ml-model-with-pictures-of-toys)

> - [Configure the camera on your laptop to capture data](#configure-your-webcam-to-capture-data) with the Data Management service and use it to capture images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [Configure the camera on your laptop to capture data](#configure-your-webcam-to-capture-data) with the Data Management service and use it to capture images.
```

Reviewer: you don't need a bullet here - that makes it look a bit strange

Author: Makes sense, done

   After that, filter your image data with [tags](#tag-data) and use it to train a [machine learning model](/services/ml/) on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

2. [**Use your ML Model to sing songs to your kids:**](#use-your-ml-model-to-sing-songs-to-your-kids)

> - [Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier](#configure-your-webcam-to-act-as-a-shape-classifier) with Viam's [ML Model](/services/ml/) and [Vision](/services/vision/) Services, [record bedtime songs](#record-bedtime-songs), and [program the robot](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot) to play a song when it recognizes a shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier](#configure-your-webcam-to-act-as-a-shape-classifier) with Viam's [ML Model](/services/ml/) and [Vision](/services/vision/) Services, [record bedtime songs](#record-bedtime-songs), and [program the robot](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot) to play a song when it recognizes a shape.
```

Author: done

## Train your ML Model with pictures of toys

### Configure your webcam to capture data

In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), create a new robot and follow the steps on your new robot’s **Setup** tab.

Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the [**Config** tab](/manage/configuration/).

> First, add your personal computer's webcam to your robot as a [camera](/components/camera/) by creating a new component with **type** `camera` and **model** `webcam`:

Reviewer: This does apply to both the config builder and json template but it's not as clear as it is for example [here](https://docs.viam.com/tutorials/projects/claw-game/#configure-the-board)

Author: Ok I moved the info into config builder!

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

![Creation of a `webcam` camera in the Viam app config builder. The user is selecting the video_path configuration attribute from the drop-down menu](../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/video-path-ui.png)

You do not have to edit the attributes of your camera at this point.
Optionally, select a fixed filepath for the camera from the automated options in the **video path** drop-down menu.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
"components": [
  {
    "model": "webcam",
    "attributes": {},
    "depends_on": [],
    "name": "cam",
    "type": "camera"
  }
]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Name your camera `"cam"`.

Author: Moved, took me a sec but that makes sense

If you use a different name, adapt the code in the later steps of this tutorial to use the name you give your camera.

To view your webcam's image stream, navigate to the **Control** tab of your robot's page on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the drop-down menu labeled **camera** and toggle the feed on.

> Click on **Export Screenshot** to capture an image, as shown below:

Reviewer: Why do they need to do this? (I think they don't?)

Author: Addressed w/ following thread

> Click on **Export Screenshot** to capture an image, as shown below:

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to test your webcam's image capture, you can click on **Export Screenshot** to capture an image, as shown below:
```
That makes sense. for last pass-- would you rather me add the info that this is an option/keep the screenshot or remove

Reviewer: keep is fine - don't feel strongly

Author: sorry 🤦‍♀️

Author: done!

 ],
 "services": [
   {
     "attributes": {
       "sync_interval_mins": 0.1,
       "capture_dir": "",
       "tags": []
     },
     "name": "Data-Management-Service",
     "type": "data_manager"
   }
 ]
}
```

Make sure that you have added a `service_config` to the JSON configuration of your webcam with type `data_manager`, as well as a new service with type `data_manager`, as shown above.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Capture data

Your webcam is now configured to automatically capture images when you are connected to your robot live on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
At this point, grab the toys or any objects you want the robot to be able to differentiate between.

Tess's kids like playing with puzzle pieces, which come in different shape and color combinations.
They decided to filter between these puzzle pieces by tagging by shape, but you can filter your objects as you choose.

Hold up the toys to the camera while photos are being taken.
Try to capture images from different angles and backgrounds.
Try to get at least 50 images that fit your criteria for each tag.

You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attribute `capture_frequency_hz`.

> If you set this to `.333`, your webcam will export 1 image roughly every 3 seconds as you hold up your toys to the camera.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set this to `.333`, the data management service will capture 1 image roughly every 3 seconds as you hold up your toys to the camera.
```

Scroll between your images.
Add tags for each image that shows an object of the corresponding shape.
You can select tags from the **Recently used** drop down menu.
Try to have at least 50 images labeled for each tag.
This is important for the next step.

#### Filter based on tags

Now that you've tagged the image data, you have the option to [filter your images](/manage/data/view/) according to those tags.
Head over to the **Filtering** menu and select a tag from the drop down list to view all labeled images.

### Train a model

After tagging and filtering your images, begin training your model.

Click the **Train Model** button.
Name your model `"shape-classifier-model"`.
If you use a different name, adapt the code in the later steps of this tutorial to use the name you give your model.
Select **Multi label** as the model type, which accounts for multiple tags.

Then select the tags that you used to label your toys and click **Train Model**.

Read through our guide to [training a new model](/manage/ml/train-model/) for more information.

## Use your ML Model to sing songs to your kids

### Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier

> [Deploy the model](/services/ml/) to the robot and configure a [Vision Service](/services/vision/) of model `mlmodel` to use this model.

Author: ```suggestion
[Deploy the model](/services/ml/) to the robot and configure a [vision service](/services/vision/) of model `mlmodel` to use this model.
```

> Name your Vision Service `"shape-classifier"`.

Author: ```suggestion
Name your vision service `"shape-classifier"`.
```

> If you use a different name, adapt the code in the later steps of this tutorial to use the name you give your model.

Author: ```suggestion
If you use a different name, adapt the code in the later steps of this tutorial to use the name you give your service.
```

- Make the names of the files match the classifier tags you used: for example, <file>square.mp3</file>.
- Navigate to a directory where you want to store your SDK code.
Save your audio files inside of this directory.

The audio files I used are available to download on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/bedtime-songs-bot).

### Program your bedtime-songs bot

Now, use Viam's Go SDK to program your robot so that if your webcam "sees" (captures image data containing) a toy, the robot knows to play a particular song through its computer's speakers.

Follow these instructions to start working on your Go control code:

1. Navigate to your robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com), and click on the **Code sample** tab.
2. Select **Go** as the language.
3. Click **Copy** to copy the generated code sample, which establishes a connection with your robot when run.

   {{% snippet "show-secret.md" %}}

4. Open your terminal.
Navigate to the directory where you want to store your code.
Paste this code sample into a new file named <file>play-songs.go</file>, and save it.

For example, run the following commands on your Macbook to create and open the file:

> ``` shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
```

Author: done thank you for inline!

func initSpeaker(logger golog.Logger) {
   f, err := os.Open("square.mp3")
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer f.Close()

   streamer, format, err := mp3.Decode(f)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer streamer.Close()

   speaker.Init(format.SampleRate, format.SampleRate.N(time.Second/10))
}

func play(label string, logger golog.Logger) {
   f, err := os.Open(label + ".mp3")
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer f.Close()

   streamer, _, err := mp3.Decode(f)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer streamer.Close()

   done := make(chan bool)
   speaker.Play(beep.Seq(streamer, beep.Callback(func() {
       done <- true
   })))

   <-done
}
```

Modify the above code as you desire.

Make sure you import the necessary packages by adding the following to the `import` statement of your program:

```go
"github.com/faiface/beep"
"github.com/faiface/beep/mp3"
"github.com/faiface/beep/speaker"
```

Also, make sure that you add `initSpeaker(logger)`, a line that initializes the speaker, to the `main` function of your program.

Now, create the logic for the classifiers.

> Use the Vision Service's [classification](/services/vision/classification/) API method `ClassificationsFromCamera` to do this.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the vision service's [classification](/services/vision/classification/) API method `ClassificationsFromCamera` to do this.
```

     logger,
     client.WithDialOptions(rpc.WithCredentials(rpc.Credentials{
         Type:    utils.CredentialsTypeRobotLocationSecret,
         Payload: "", // Insert your robot location secret here. Go to the Code Sample tab in the Viam app to find.
     })),
 )
 if err != nil {
     logger.Fatal(err)
 }

 defer robot.Close(context.Background())
  
// Get the shape classifier from the robot 
 visService, err := vision.FromRobot(robot, "shape-classifier")
 if err != nil {
   logger.Error(err)
 }

 // Initialize the speaker
 initSpeaker(logger)

 // Classifications logic
 for {
   for i := 0; i < 3; i++ {
       visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam",  1, nil)
   }

   classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam", 1, nil)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
   }
   if len(classifications) > 0 && classifications[0].Score() > 0.7 {
       logger.Info(classifications[0])
       play(classifications[0].Label(), logger)
   }

 }
}
```

Save your <file>play-songs.go</file> program with this logic added in.
Run the code on your personal computer as follows:

> ``` shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
```

Author: done!

go run ~/<my-bedtime-songs-bot-directory>/play-songs.go
```

The full example source code for <file>play-songs.go</file> is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/bedtime-songs-bot/blob/main/play_songs.go).

Now, as shown below, your smart bedtime songs bot knows to play a song whenever it sees a shape on the camera:

> {{<gif webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}

Reviewer: we have this as a video with sound right? If you change this to use the video shortcode you'll actually have sound too!

Author: Epic, changed

## Next Steps

This project is just a start.

> Expand upon the [configuration](/manage/configuration/) of your bedtime-songs bot to further customize a robot that can entertain with [machine learning](/services/ml/), the [Vision Service](/services/), and more [components](/components/) and [services](/services/).

Author: ```suggestion
Expand upon the [configuration](/manage/configuration/) of your bedtime-songs bot to further customize a robot that can entertain with [machine learning](/services/ml/), the [vision service](/services/), and more [components](/components/) and [services](/services/).
```

   After that, filter your image data with [tags](#tag-data) and use it to train a [machine learning model](/services/ml/) on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

2. [**Use your ML Model to sing songs to your kids:**](#use-your-ml-model-to-sing-songs-to-your-kids)

    [Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier](#configure-your-webcam-to-act-as-a-shape-classifier) with Viam's [ML Model](/services/ml/) and [Vision](/services/vision/) Services, [record bedtime songs](#record-bedtime-songs), and [program the robot](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot) to play a song when it recognizes a shape.

## Train your ML Model with pictures of toys

### Configure your webcam to capture data

In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), create a new robot and follow the steps on your new robot’s **Setup** tab.

Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the [**Config** tab](/manage/configuration/).

First, add your personal computer's webcam to your robot as a [camera](/components/camera/) by creating a new component with **type** `camera` and **model** `webcam`:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.

Add your [camera](https://docs.viam.com/components/board/) with the name `cam`, type `camera`, and model `webcam`.
Click **Create Component**.
```

![Creation of a `webcam` camera in the Viam app config builder. The user is selecting the video_path configuration attribute from the drop-down menu](../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/video-path-ui.png)

You do not have to edit the attributes of your camera at this point.
Optionally, select a fixed filepath for the camera from the automated options in the **video path** drop-down menu.

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{% tab name="Raw JSON" %}}
```

``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
"components": [
  {
    "model": "webcam",
    "attributes": {},
    "depends_on": [],
    "name": "cam",
    "type": "camera"
  }
]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Name your camera `"cam"`.

Author: ```suggestion
```

If you use a different name, adapt the code in the later steps of this tutorial to use the name you give your camera.

To view your webcam's image stream, navigate to the **Control** tab of your robot's page on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the drop-down menu labeled **camera** and toggle the feed on.
Click on **Export Screenshot** to capture an image, as shown below:

  {{<imgproc src="../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png" resize="400x" declaredimensions=true alt="The image stream of a Macbook webcam in the Viam app control tab. A small wooden toy is shown on screen." >}}

Now, configure the [Data Management Service](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#add-the-data-management-service) to [capture data](/services/data/configure-data-capture/), so you can use the image data coming from your camera on your robot to train your ML model:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{% tab name="Builder UI" %}}
```

 visService, err := vision.FromRobot(robot, "shape-classifier")
 if err != nil {
   logger.Error(err)
 }

 // Initialize the speaker
 initSpeaker(logger)

 // Classifications logic
 for {
   for i := 0; i < 3; i++ {
       visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam",  1, nil)
   }

   classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam", 1, nil)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
   }
   if len(classifications) > 0 && classifications[0].Score() > 0.7 {
       logger.Info(classifications[0])
       play(classifications[0].Label(), logger)
   }

 }
}
```

Save your <file>play-songs.go</file> program with this logic added in.
Run the code on your personal computer as follows:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
go run ~/<my-bedtime-songs-bot-directory>/play-songs.go
```

The full example source code for <file>play-songs.go</file> is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/bedtime-songs-bot/blob/main/play_songs.go).

Now, as shown below, your smart bedtime songs bot knows to play a song whenever it sees a shape on the camera:

> {{<gif webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}
```

description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4"
videoAlt: "A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer."
authors: [ "Tess Avitabile", "Sierra Guequierre" ]
languages: [ "python" ]
viamresources: [ "camera", "sensor", "mlmodel", "vision" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "21 April 2023"
cost: "0"
---

## Author's Note

**"When I started at Viam, Eliot Horowitz told me the best way to test the product is to try to automate something I do in my life with a robot.
As a parent of a 3-year-old and a 1-year-old, I am often presented with a toy and asked to sing a song about it.
When I was testing out Viam's ML Model service, I came up with the idea of using machine learning to make my computer do this simple task for my kids when I'm not around."**

> **- Tess, Engineering Director at Viam**

Author: ```suggestion
- Tess, Engineering Director at Viam
```

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]

> description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."
icon: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"
```

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> icon: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"

Author: ```suggestion
image: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"
imageAlt: "Image of Tess and their computer."
images: ["/tutorials/pet-treat-dispenser/preview.png"]
```

> images: ["/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"]

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> image: "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I don't think it needs "image" but idk whether that's related to the build error or not

Reviewer: It doesn't need image or imageAlt. Those are an either or with the webmsrc, mp4src and videoAlt. Essentially either a preview card on a page has a video or an image

imageAlt: "Image of Tess and their computer."

> images: ["/tutorials/pet-treat-dispenser/preview.png"]

Author: ```suggestion
images: ["/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"]
```

> images: ["/tutorials/pet-treat-dispenser/preview.png"]

Author: addressed! sorry, issue was introduced during debugging

Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the [**Config** tab](/manage/configuration/).

First, add your personal computer's webcam to your robot as a [camera](/components/camera/) by creating a new component with **type** `camera` and **model** `webcam`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder UI" %}}

Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.

Add your [camera](https://docs.viam.com/components/board/) with the name `cam`, type `camera`, and model `webcam`.
Click **Create Component**.

![Creation of a `webcam` camera in the Viam app config builder. The user is selecting the video_path configuration attribute from the drop-down menu](../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/video-path-ui.png)

You do not have to edit the attributes of your camera at this point.
Optionally, select a fixed filepath for the camera from the automated options in the **video path** drop-down menu.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Raw JSON" %}}

On the [`Raw JSON` tab](/manage/configuration/#the-config-tab), replace the configuration with the following JSON configuration for your camera:

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Try to get at least 50 images that fit your criteria for each tag.

You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attribute `capture_frequency_hz`.
If you set this to `.333`, the data management service will capture 1 image roughly every 3 seconds as you hold up your toys to the camera.

Go to the [**DATA tab**](https://app.viam.com/data/view?view=images) in the Viam app to see the images captured by your webcam.

When you've captured enough images to tag, navigate back to the **Config** tab.
Scroll to the card with the name of your webcam and click the power switch next to the **Data Capture Configuration** to **off** to [disable data capture](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components).

Now, use these pictures to train your machine learning model.

### Tag data

Head over to the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select an image captured from your robot.
After selecting the image, you will see all of the data that is associated with that image.

[Add tags](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) for each of the puzzle pieces.
Type in your desired tag in the **Tags** section and save the tag.

> Since Tess wanted to classify their toys by shape, they used “octagon,” “circle,” “triangle,” “oval,” “rectangle,” “pentagon,” “diamond,” and “square”.

Author: ```suggestion
Since Tess wanted to classify their toys by shape, they used `“octagon”`, `“circle”`, `“triangle”`, `“oval"`, `“rectangle”`, `“pentagon”`, `“diamond”`, and `“square”`.
```

       logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
   }
   if len(classifications) > 0 && classifications[0].Score() > 0.7 {
       logger.Info(classifications[0])
       play(classifications[0].Label(), logger)
   }

 }
}
```

Save your <file>play-songs.go</file> program with this logic added in.
Run the code on your personal computer as follows:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
go run ~/<my-bedtime-songs-bot-directory>/play-songs.go
```

The full example source code for <file>play-songs.go</file> is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/bedtime-songs-bot/blob/main/play_songs.go).

Now, as shown below, your smart bedtime songs bot knows to play a song whenever it sees a shape on the camera:

{{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```
one more consistency nit

> {{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer." poster="/general/heart.jpg">}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer." poster="/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png">}}
```

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> image: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image: "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"
```
Maybe this will fix the build error??

imageAlt: "Image of Tess and their computer."
images: ["/tutorials/pet-treat-dispenser/preview.png"]

> poster: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Maybe not necessary since GIF exists?

videoAlt: "A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer."
authors: [ "Tess Avitabile", "Sierra Guequierre" ]
languages: [ "python" ]
viamresources: [ "camera", "sensor", "mlmodel", "vision" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "21 April 2023"
cost: "0"
---

{{< alert title="Creator's note" color="note" >}}

"When I started at Viam, Eliot Horowitz told me the best way to test the product is to try to automate something I do in my life with a robot.
As a parent of a 3-year-old and a 1-year-old, I am often presented with a toy and asked to sing a song about it.
When I was testing out Viam's ML Model service, I came up with the idea of using machine learning to make my computer do this simple task for my kids when I'm not around."

<p style="text-align: right;">Tess, Engineering Director</p>
{{< /alert >}}

Follow this tutorial to train a machine learning model to make your own "bedtime songs bot" out of a personal computer.

> ## Get Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get started
```
[nit] since the other ones in the doc are sentence case

Try to get at least 50 images that fit your criteria for each tag.

You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attribute `capture_frequency_hz`.
If you set this to `.333`, the data management service will capture 1 image roughly every 3 seconds as you hold up your toys to the camera.

Go to the [**DATA tab**](https://app.viam.com/data/view?view=images) in the Viam app to see the images captured by your webcam.

When you've captured enough images to tag, navigate back to the **Config** tab.
Scroll to the card with the name of your webcam and click the power switch next to the **Data Capture Configuration** to **off** to [disable data capture](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components).

Now, use these pictures to train your machine learning model.

### Tag data

Head over to the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select an image captured from your robot.
After selecting the image, you will see all of the data that is associated with that image.

[Add tags](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) for each of the puzzle pieces.
Type in your desired tag in the **Tags** section and save the tag.

> Since Tess wanted to classify their toys by shape, they used “octagon”, “circle”, “triangle”, “oval”, “rectangle”, “pentagon”, “diamond”, and “square”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Tess wanted to classify their toys by shape, they used “octagon,” “circle,” “triangle,” “oval,” “rectangle,” “pentagon,” “diamond,” and “square”.
```
[nit]

Reviewer: Why do you think this? @JessamyT

 visService, err := vision.FromRobot(robot, "shape-classifier")
 if err != nil {
   logger.Error(err)
 }

 // Initialize the speaker
 initSpeaker(logger)

 // Classifications logic
 for {
   for i := 0; i < 3; i++ {
       visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam",  1, nil)
   }

   classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "cam", 1, nil)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
   }
   if len(classifications) > 0 && classifications[0].Score() > 0.7 {
       logger.Info(classifications[0])
       play(classifications[0].Label(), logger)
   }

 }
}
```

Save your <file>play-songs.go</file> program with this logic added in.
Run the code on your personal computer as follows:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
go run ~/<my-bedtime-songs-bot-directory>/play-songs.go
```

The full example source code for <file>play-songs.go</file> is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/bedtime-songs-bot/blob/main/play_songs.go).

Now, as shown below, your smart bedtime songs bot knows to play a song whenever it sees a shape on the camera:

> {{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}

Reviewer 2: Can this be a video file that has sound? Since this is such an audio-focused tutorial?

Author: I'll see if I can find it tomorrow and remove the editing I did to make it look better from my iphone quality that took away the sound

For now I have absolutely no idea why it keeps on failing these checks (I thought I have recs for poster in front matter?), @npentrel If you have any advice that would be appreciated dearly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{<gif webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer.">}}
```
Ahh here's the problem :D If you change this from "video" to "gif" it all builds properly. If you do change it to a video with sound though, it won't be an autoplaying gif anymore, and then it'll need to say "video" and have a "poster" added into this shortcode too.

Reviewer 2: You don't need "poster" or "image" in the frontmatter though if you keep the webm and mp4s in there. You'd only need the poster inside this shortcode, for the click-to-play video, if you go that route.

Reviewer: https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/note.md#regular-videos

Videos need an image to display before they load. You add that on the shortcode. The video on this page and how you add it doesn't interact with the frontmatter specification. 

```suggestion
{{<video webm_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4" max-width="500px" alt="A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer." poster="/general/heart.jpg">}}
```
^ this will make it work but you need to get an image from the video. You can use:

```sh
ffmpeg -ss 00:00:05 -i PATH_TO_GIF_OR_VID.mp4 -frames:v 1 PATH_TO_GIF_OR_VID.jpg
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed it doesn't interact; I just mean that 
1. It's an either/or: either this becomes a GIF (which works with the current video that doesn't have sound anyway) OR it becomes a video in which case it needs a poster.
2. Included the sentence about not needing a poster in the frontmatter because we've been messing with that too, and if it stays as a GIF in the frontmatter you don't need a poster do you?

---
title: "Build a bedtime songs bot with a custom ML model"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> images: [ "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.gif" ]

Author: ```suggestion
imageAlt: "Image of Tess and their computer."
```

{
 "components": [
   {
     "model": "webcam",
     "attributes": {},
     "depends_on": [],
     "service_config": [
       {
         "attributes": {
           "capture_methods": [
             {
               "additional_params": {
                 "mime_type": "image/jpeg"
               },
               "capture_frequency_hz": .333,
               "method": "ReadImage"
             }
           ]
         },
         "type": "data_manager"
       }
     ],
     "name": "cam",
     "type": "camera"
   }
 ],
 "services": [
   {
     "attributes": {
       "sync_interval_mins": 0.1,
       "capture_dir": "",
       "tags": []
     },
     "name": "Data-Management-Service",
     "type": "data_manager"
   }
 ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< alert title="Important" color="tip" >}}

Make sure that you have added a `service_config` to the JSON configuration of your webcam with type `data_manager`, as well as a new service with type `data_manager`.

{{< /alert >}}

### Capture data

Your webcam should now be configured to automatically capture images when you are connected to your robot on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

> You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attibute `capture_frequency_hz`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attribute `capture_frequency_hz`.
```

---
title: "Use ML and a webcam to entertain kids with bedtime songs"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> image: "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/bedtime-songs-bot.png"
> imageAlt: "Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.mp4"
videoAlt: "A demonstration of the bedtime songs bot is taking place in an office. Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop. As the webcam on the laptop recognizes the puzzle pieces, different songs start to play on the speakers of the computer."
```

^ no reason not to use the full vid I think.

Reviewer: There's currently a bug with how the card displays - the code only works if you have a valid cost. I'll fix this in a separate PR

Reviewer: https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/pull/1600

Author: @npentrel Got it, thanks so much!

Author: done

images: ["/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/bedtime-songs-bot.png"]
authors: [ "Tess Avitabile" ]
languages: [ "python" ]
viamresources: [ "camera", "sensor", "mlmodel", "vision" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "21 April 2023"

> # cost: 0 (laptop)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cost: "0"
```

Author: Thank you for taking the time to comment this inline I appreciate it on my end haha, it makes the editing process super quick.

Hold up the toys to the camera while photos are being taken.
Try to capture images from different angles and backgrounds.
Try to get at least 50 images that fit your criteria for each tag.

You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attribute `capture_frequency_hz`.
If you set this to `.333`, your webcam will export 1 image roughly every 3 seconds as you hold up your toys to the camera.

Go to the [**DATA tab**](https://app.viam.com/data/view?view=images) in the Viam app to see the images captured by your webcam.

When you've captured enough images to tag, navigate back to the **Config** tab.
Scroll to the card with the name of your webcam and click the power switch next to the **Data Capture Configuration** to **off** to [disable data capture](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components).

Now, use these pictures to train your machine learning model.

### Tag data

Head over to the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select an image captured from your robot.
After selecting the image, you will see all of the data that is associated with that image.

Add tags for each of the puzzle pieces.

> Follow [these instructions](/manage/data/tag) to do so.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow [these instructions](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) to do so.
```

> Follow [these instructions](/manage/data/tag) to do so.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow [these instructions](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) to do so.
```

Type in your desired tag in the Tags section and save the tag.
Since we wanted to classify our toys by shape, we used “octagon”, “circle”, “triangle”, “oval”, “rectangle”, “pentagon”, “diamond”, and “square”.

Scroll between your images.
Add tags for each image that shows an object of the corresponding shape.
You can select tags from the **Recently used** drop down menu.
Try to have at least 50 images labeled for each tag.
This is important for the next step.

#### Filter based on tags

> Upon completion of tagging your data set, you can now [filter images](/manage/data/view/) according to those tags.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you've tagged the image data, you have the option to [filter your images](/manage/data/view/) according to those tags.
```

> ---

Author: done!

title: "Use ML and a webcam to entertain kids with bedtime songs"
linkTitle: "Bedtime Songs Bot"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."
image: "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/bedtime-songs-bot.png"
imageAlt: "Tess holds up brightly colored puzzle pieces in front of the camera of a Macbook laptop."
images: ["/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/bedtime-songs-bot.png"]
authors: [ "Tess Avitabile" ]
languages: [ "python" ]
viamresources: [ "camera", "sensor", "mlmodel", "vision" ]
level: "Beginner"
date: "21 April 2023"
# cost: 0 (laptop)
---

<br>
A Note from the Inventor:
</br>

<pre>

When I started at Viam, Eliot told me the best way to test the product is to try to automate something I do in my life with a robot.

As a parent of a 3-year-old and a 1-year-old, I am often presented with a toy and asked to sing a song about it.
When we were testing out Viam's ML Model service, I came up with the idea of using machine learning to make my computer do this simple task for my kids when I'm not around.

</pre>

> Follow this tutorial to train a machine learning model to make your own "bedtime songs bot" out of a personal computer.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, done!

- [Configure the camera on your laptop to capture data](#configure-your-webcam-to-capture-data) with the Data Management service and use it to capture images.
   After that, filter your image data with [tags](#tag-data) and use it to train a [machine learning model](/services/ml/) on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

[**Use your ML Model to sing songs to your kids:**](#use-your-ml-model-to-sing-songs-to-your-kids)

- [Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier](#configure-your-webcam-to-act-as-a-shape-classifier) with Viam's [ML Model](/services/ml/) and [Vision](/services/vision/) Services, [record bedtime songs](#record-bedtime-songs), and [program the robot](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot) to play a song when it recognizes a shape.

## Train your ML Model with pictures of toys

Make sure you have created a robot before starting this tutorial.
If you haven't already, follow [this guide](/installation/#install-viam-server) to install `viam-server` on your computer and connect to the corresponding robot by following the steps in the **Setup** tab of [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

### Configure your webcam to capture data

> Navigate to your robot's page on the app and click on the **Config** tab.

Author: done

First, add the camera on your computer as a [camera](/components/camera/) component by creating a new component with **type** `camera` and **model** `webcam`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

![Creation of a `webcam` camera in the Viam app config builder. The user is selecting the video_path configuration attribute from the drop-down menu](../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/video-path-ui.png)

You do not have to edit the attributes of your camera at this point.
Optionally, select a fixed filepath for the camera from the automated options in the **video path** drop-down menu.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
"components": [
   {
     "model": "webcam",
     "attributes": {},
     "depends_on": [],
     "name": "<your-camera-name>",
     "type": "camera"
   }
 ]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
"components": [
   {
     "model": "webcam",
     "attributes": {},
     "depends_on": [],
     "name": "cam",
     "type": "camera"
   }
 ]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> To match the name we used in our [bedtime songs program](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot), name your camera `"cam"`.

Author: Sounds good to me!

> To match the name we used in our [bedtime songs program](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot), name your camera `"cam"`.

Author: changed

       "capture_dir": "",
       "tags": []
     },
     "name": "Data-Management-Service",
     "type": "data_manager"
   }
 ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< alert title="Important" color="tip" >}}

Make sure that you have added a `service_config` to the JSON configuration of your webcam with type `data_manager`, as well as a new service with type `data_manager`.

{{< /alert >}}

### Capture data

Your webcam should now be configured to automatically capture images when you are connected to your robot on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

You set the rate of capture in your webcam's service configuration attibute `capture_frequency_hz`.
If you set this to `.333`, your webcam should export 1 image roughly every 3 seconds.

At this point, grab the toys or any objects you want the robot to be able to differentiate between.

The inventor's kids like playing with puzzle pieces, which come in different shape and color combinations.
They decided to filter between these puzzle pieces by tagging by shape, but you can filter your objects as you choose.

Hold up the toys to the camera while photos are being taken.
Try to capture images from different angles and backgrounds.

> Try to get at least 50 images that fit your criteria for each tag.

Author: awesome catch, thank you!

Scroll between your images.
Add tags for each image that shows an object of the corresponding shape.
You can select tags from the **Recently used** drop down menu.
Try to have at least 50 images labeled for each tag.
This is important for the next step.

#### Filter based on tags

Upon completion of tagging your data set, you can now [filter images](/manage/data/view/) according to those tags.
Head over to the **Filtering** menu and select a tag from the drop down list to view all labeled images.

### Train a model

After tagging and filtering your images, begin training your model.

Click the **Train Model** button.
Name your model.
To match the name we used in our [bedtime songs program](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot), name your model `"shape-classifier-model"`.
Select **Multi label** as the model type, which accounts for multiple tags.

Then select the tags that you used to label your toys and click **Train Model**.

Read through our guide to [training a new model](/manage/ml/train-model/) for more information.

## Use your ML Model to sing songs to your kids

> Now, deploy and configure your ML Model on your robot, and configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier.

Reviewer: This is a bit draw the owl
![image](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/assets/5212232/c7cbb414-446d-4e4a-8f6c-b16f9364f459)

Author: done

Use Viam's Go SDK to program the robot so that if your webcam "sees" (captures image data containing) a toy, the robot knows to play a particular song through its computer's speakers.

### Configure your webcam to act as a shape classifier

[Deploy the model](/services/ml/) to the robot and configure a [Vision Service](/services/vision/) of model `mlmodel` to use this model.

> To match the name we used in our [bedtime songs program](#program-your-bedtime-songs-bot), name your Vision Service `"shape-classifier"`.

Reviewer: see above

   {
     "name": "shapes",
     "version": "latest",
     "package": "20055b44-c8a7-4bc5-ad93-86900ee9735a/shapes"
   }
 ],
 "services": [
   {
     "name": "shape-classifier-model",
     "type": "mlmodel",
     "model": "tflite_cpu",
     "attributes": {
       "model_path": "${packages.shapes}/shapes.tflite",
       "label_path": "${packages.shapes}/labels.txt",
       "num_threads": 1
     }
   },
   {
     "name": "shape-classifier",
     "type": "vision",
     "model": "mlmodel",
     "attributes": {
       "mlmodel_name": "shape-classifier-model"
     }
   }
 ],
 "components": [
   {
     "name": "cam",
     "type": "camera",
     "model": "webcam",
     "attributes": {},
     "depends_on": []
   }
 ]
}
```

If you copy and paste this template into your robot's **Raw JSON** configuration, make sure to edit and fill in the attributes as applicable.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Record bedtime songs

Now, capture the audio of the songs you want your bot to play.

- Record or download the audio files you want to use to your computer in <file>.mp3</file> format.
- Make the names of the files match the classifier tags you used: for example, <file>square.mp3</file>.

> - Place these files in the same directory on your computer as your SDK code.

Reviewer: You're saying this before the code files are created - and then later giving detailed info about how to create that

Author: Oh yes, good point!

func initSpeaker(logger golog.Logger) {
   f, err := os.Open("square.mp3")
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer f.Close()

   streamer, format, err := mp3.Decode(f)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer streamer.Close()

   speaker.Init(format.SampleRate, format.SampleRate.N(time.Second/10))
}

func play(label string, logger golog.Logger) {
   f, err := os.Open(label + ".mp3")
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer f.Close()

   streamer, _, err := mp3.Decode(f)
   if err != nil {
       logger.Fatal(err)
   }
   defer streamer.Close()

   done := make(chan bool)
   speaker.Play(beep.Seq(streamer, beep.Callback(func() {
       done <- true
   })))

   <-done
}
```

Modify the above code as you desire.

Make sure you import the necessary packages by adding the following to the `import` statement of your program:

```go
"github.com/faiface/beep"
"github.com/faiface/beep/mp3"
"github.com/faiface/beep/speaker"
```

Also, make sure that you add `initSpeaker(logger)`, a line that initializes the speaker, to the `main` function of your program.

Now, create the logic for the classifiers.

> Use the Vision Service's [classification](/services/vision/classification) API method `ClassificationsFromCamera` to do this.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the Vision Service's [classification](/services/vision/classification/) API method `ClassificationsFromCamera` to do this.
```

type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> icon: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"

Author: ```suggestion
icon: "assets/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/export-screenshot.png"
poster: "/tutorials/img/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.webm"
```

type: "docs"
tags: ["mac", "app", "board", "webcam", "camera", "ml", "machine learning", "babysitter"]
description: "Create a robot babysitter with a webcam and machine learning."

> imageAlt: "Image of Tess and their computer."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
images: [ "/tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/robot_babysitter.gif" ]
```
![robot_babysitter](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/assets/5212232/3b4f4df4-36a3-4e55-8b94-f957dccaedaa)

^ just videoAlt when you use videos but we do want to add an images argument with a gif in it

First, add your personal computer's webcam to your robot as a [camera](/components/camera/) by creating a new component with **type** `camera` and **model** `webcam`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder UI" %}}

Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.

Add your [camera](https://docs.viam.com/components/board/) with the name `cam`, type `camera`, and model `webcam`.
Click **Create Component**.

![Creation of a `webcam` camera in the Viam app config builder. The user is selecting the video_path configuration attribute from the drop-down menu](../../tutorials/bedtime-songs-bot/video-path-ui.png)

You do not have to edit the attributes of your camera at this point.
Optionally, select a fixed filepath for the camera from the automated options in the **video path** drop-down menu.

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab name="Raw JSON" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab name="Raw JSON" %}}

On the [`Raw JSON` tab](/manage/configuration/#the-config-tab), replace the configuration with the following JSON configuration for your camera:

```

> ``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
```

[Add tags](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) for each of the puzzle pieces.
Type in your desired tag in the **Tags** section and save the tag.

> Since Tess wanted to classify their toys by shape, they used “octagon,” “circle,” “triangle,” “oval,” “rectangle,” “pentagon,” “diamond,” and “square”.

Reviewer: why did you change this? the comma should not be in the quote.

Reviewer 2: Oh I made the suggestion to change it to comma inside quote because since these are not inside code backticks, I figured they'd follow normal punctuation rules.

Reviewer 3: Comma within quote is indeed a common copy rule, but I see it most frequently when quoting people verbatim, such that a single pair of quotes is used to quote a person's statement (incl their chosen punctuation). Here, these are values representing classification terms, and the quotation marks I think are in line with how they appear in JSON: quoted strings. I think commas within then makes for a confusing read: we are not quoting 8 person quotes, but 8 value strings. In code context, the commas would indeed be outside the quoted JSON values.

Alternatively, I think these could just be monospace if simpler. They represent strings I've entered verbatim into the text area on this App page, and monospace helps me to know that the exact match is important, and that these are not, say, placeholders or example suggestions (they all map to the chosen model).

### Capture data

Your webcam is now configured to automatically capture images when you are connected to your robot live on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
At this point, grab the toys or any objects you want the robot to be able to differentiate between.

> Tess's kids like playing with puzzle pieces, which come in different shape and color combinations.

Reviewer: Either first person or third person throughout please

After selecting the image, you will see all of the data that is associated with that image.

> Add tags for each of the puzzle pieces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Add tags](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) for each of the puzzle pieces.
```

Author: done

> Follow [these instructions](/manage/data/label/#image-tags) to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done!
